Creature of the Maze ]I[ - version 0.5 by M. Brent
--------------------------------------------------

Creature of the Maze ]I[ is a Dungeon-style game in which you wander a
large maze in an attempt to find and destroy the evil boss creature on
level 9.

The levels are each 75x75 in size, and there are 10 levels numbered 0-9.

Movement through the maze is accomplished by entering the direction, 
(N)orth, (S)outh, (E)ast or (W)est. Certain obstacles, like doors, require
a certain item be in the player's inventory in order to pass by them.

The (I)nventory/stats command will display the current player's character
information, the spells learned, the items being carried, and any companions
who may be tagging along. The following stats are kept track of:

Magic - each spell has a set number of points required to cast it. In the
        spell list, more powerful spells are listed last, but do not require
        more points to cast. Magic has a max of 999 points.

Skill - this is the player's skill with attacking and defending. A higher
        skill is better. Max skill is 999.

Strength - the character's strength and hit points. The strength determines
           whether the character can perform certain difficult tasks. It also
           serves as a measure of how much life is left.. if this value
           reaches 0 the character is dead. There is no (practical) upper
           limit.

(x,y) - this is the player's location in the maze

Level - the level of the maze the player is on

Neutral, Good, Evil - the player's disposition, based on who the character
                      attacks without provokation, mostly, or spending time
                      in temples.

Armour - one point of armour will stop 1 point of attack damage. When the
         armour is destroyed the player will take damage again

Weapon - the name of the weapon and it's strength. The amount of damage done
         in a hit is based on the player's strength and the + indicator of
         the weapon

Curse - when a player is cursed, this many points are deducted from skill
        ONLY WHEN ATTACKING. Curses may be cured by praying or by magic.

The (M)agic command allows a player to cast a spell. Each spell has it's own
effects on player and/or enemy stats. The player must have enough magic 
points to cast the spell. The lower the spell in the list, the more 
powerful it is, even if it's the same spell. For example, a number 9 Curse
spell will cause a greater curse on the enemy than a number 2 Curse. 

Spells are learned as skill increases, and may not be changed once learned.
Beware, some spells may harm the caster. The name of the spell will usually
suggest what it will do. (If you can figure out what the word means!)

The only way to increase magic points is to find and use a magic potion.

You may also find magic scrolls to do various things. These do not require
any magic points.

The (U)se command will allow the player to use an item in his inventory. The
results of this depend on the item.

(R)est will regain some strength points, up to a certain limit. You can rest
to a higher limit on deeper levels.

(P)raying is usually done to cure a curse. At a temple, it will also provide
devine inspiration. It also solidifies your position as good or evil.

e(X)amine will allow you to examine an item you have already picked up. 
When you find an item, you are given the option of taking it, leaving it
or describing it. e(X)amine will show you a description after you have
already taken it.

(Q)uit will save your game and return you to the BBS.

(?) displays a brief summary of the commands

(!) displays this file

When you meet a monster, they may be willing to talk to you. If you are too
evil or too good, they may attack on sight. If you talk to them, they may 
give some advice that they heard somewhere. Then they may offer to join you.
If you accept, they will follow you around and help in battles. They will
not follow you to a new level, unless you fall down a trapdoor, and they
will not fight the boss.

Companions have no armour, no special weapons and no magic. But they still
pack a wallop!

You may carry a maximum of ten items and know ten spells.

In the item list there will always be a spot for candles and a spot for 
gold coins. Gold is used for buying things at store, and candles are
required to stay alive. If you run out of candles, it's game over.

The stores are scattered about, where a creature will offer to sell you
three items, usually at outrageous prices. You can leave and re-enter a
store as often as you like to get different items.

To go up or down levels, find stairs, fall down a trapdoor, use a scroll, 
or there may be other ways...

When you get into a fight with an enemy, you are given four options. You
may attack for all you are worth against one opponent (randomly chosen),
you may use magic which affects all enemies (no scrolls, however), you may
try to bribe the monsters into joining your party (up to 10 at a time), or 
you may try to escape, which may or may not succeed. The monster(s) will 
attack you, and your companions if you have any, and the companions will
attack the monsters. When all monsters are dead, you will receive bonus 
skill, strength, and possibly gold.

A word on bribing... every creature has it's price. If you don't offer
enough, they may hold back to see what else you do. You can bribe again
to offer still more. Note that you cannot give away candles, but you can
give away gold. Remember, though! One man's garbage is another creature's
treasure... some of that junk may be worth more than gold in bartering.

The object of the game is to defeat the boss creature on level 9. If you can
do it, your character will get to become the boss! Good luck!

------------------------
Notes to sysops: (AMIGA)
------------------------

Read the HELP.TXT file on how to play, this is how to setup:
Create a subdirectory and copy all the files into it. You will need
COTM3, LEVEL0.DAT - LEVEL9.DAT, CREATURE.DAT, PLAYERS.DAT, HINTS.DAT
HELP.TXT, MONSTERS.DAT, POSSESS.DAT and SPELLS.DAT. There may also
be any number of P00?.DAT, where ? is a number. PLAYERS.DAT must exist,
but it may be empty. For every line in PLAYERS.DAT there will be one
P00?.DAT file, although these are only needed if that player logs on.
To set up on a BBS, your BBS must handle the I/O redirection, carrier
detect, etc. (ie:it must be automatic!). Simply run the COTM3 file
with the player's ID as an argument. It may be a name, handle, or number,
but it MUST be unique to the user, and it must NOT contain any spaces!
example: COTM3 FLIPPER is fine, but COTM3 RANCID INSTIGATOR is not.
COTM3 27 would also work (user ID #27.)

I use CNET, and the arguments I use are "%40 work:work/cotm/" (it's not in
my PFILES: section because I'm still developing it.) %40 is the user number.

If your BBS does not change directories, or basically if the program
is having a hard time finding data files, you can specify the path
where the data is located. It must be a complete path with an ending
backslash, and it must come after the user ID. Etc:
COTM3 FLIPPER C:\BBS\GAMES\COTM3\

---------------
Program History
---------------
0.1 :   - 1 Jan 1995
        - initial release on FlipSide

0.2 :   - 2 Jan 1995
        - increased strength limit to almost unlimited
        - fixed spells to use position number in list vice level of maze
        - added routine for companions to attack
        - monsters use magic and attack companions
        - boss routine written
        - e(X)amine possessions command added
        - (P)ray command added
        - explanation of how to pass obstacles (like a door) added
        - increased skill value needed to learn spells
        - added help file
        - various bug fixes

0.3     - 5 Jan 1995
        - released only on FlipSide
        - (B)ribe creature command added
        - cursed items added
        - fixed bug preventing monsters from using magic
        - monster magic for good/evil checks and limit checks added
        - fixed bug in daily maintenance which fubar'd CREATURE.DAT
        - new item for light
        - changed (c) date to 1995 :)
        - increased difficulty of escaping
        - updated -maint option to create LOCATION.DAT file for multiplayer
        - minor bug fixes, and some cleaning up of text

0.4	- 20 Jan 1995
	- neutral creatures may attack
	- multiplayer (limited) added
	- news file added
	- enemies may attack when ignored.
	- monsters may attack while resting or praying
	- see stats in battle
	- friends won't take off as quickly when you're too good or evil
	- candle bug fixed
	- now everyone knows who killed you!

0.5     - 18 Jun 1995
	- fixed major bugs in maint routine, abandoned project
	  due to absence from program

-----	
TO DO
-----
- COTM IV!

----------------
Legal-like stuff
----------------

(c)1995 by M. Brent. This program is freeware, but not public domain. It may
be distributed and used on any BBS system or personal computer, so long as
it is not modified and is freely accessible. If any pay-for-access BBS wants
to use it, I ask that they contact me first, perhaps with a demo account of
their system so I can take a look. The only compensation I ask for this
program being run on a free BBS is that you send me the BBS number!

Compiled simultaneously for the Amiga and IBM.

Send numbers, comments, suggestions, and spare cash to tursi.

